> Impatient? run `./.setup NR` where `NR` is the wanted number of screens
>
> For the complete setup process, see main [README](../README.md).

# pyrfb autostart directory

`$HOME/autostart/` is a special property of https://github.com/hilbix/ptybuffer/
which allows autostarts via `cron` which can be easily controlled from commandline
later on.

This here is a snippet, where you can create such autostarts
for `pyrfb` semiautomatically.

To configure the number of screens, just do

	ln -ns --relative . "$HOME/autostart/pyrfb";
	./.setup number

This creates entries which are then used to automatically start the services for the screens.
(Note that `$HOME/bin/autostart.sh` must be configured to run from `cron`,
you find how to do that in `ptybuffer`.)

The screens are expected to be VNCs listening on port `5900+NR` on `127.0.0.1` without passwords,
see file `.pyrfb`.


# Examples on how to setup these VNC ports

- KVM:  You can set the port of the VNC type video access, listening on `localhost`.  
  Just use `5901`, `5902` and so on.  Then you can access your KVM consoles via web.  
  You can do this with NoVNC, too, but this here works with extreme low bandwidth, too.

- Local virtual X-displays:  
  `vncserver -SecurityTypes None,TLSNone -geometry 1280x1024 -fg :1`, the `:1` means port `5901`

- VNC web service to display remote VNCs:  
  `socat -d -d tcp-listen:5901,bind=127.0.0.1,reuseaddr,fork exec:'ssh vnc2host -W 127.0.0.1\:5901'`  
  In `~/.ssh/config` configure your Jump/KVM-server as `Host vnc2host` as you like.  
  The `127.0.0.15901` is your remote connection.  I recommend to use localhost.  
  Be sure to properly restrict the access of such automated ssh connections using `.ssh/authorized_keys` on `vnc2host`, i. E.:  
  `command="/bin/false",no-port-forwarding,no-X11-forwarding,no-agent-forwarding,no-user-rc,permitopen="127.0.0.1:5901",permitopen="127.0.0.1:5902" ssh-..`

The commands above are designed to run in foreground, so they can be easily controlled from your TTY or via `$HOME/autostart/` method.

Note that you can use `tmux` or `screen` methods, often even SystemD can do it.  However I use my `ptybuffer` as it is convenient to create small shell wrappers
like:

	while date && ! read -t10
	do
		vncserver -SecurityTypes None,TLSNone -geometry 1280x1024 -fg :1
		#socat -d -d tcp-listen:5901,bind=127.0.0.1,reuseaddr,fork exec:'ssh vnc2host -W 127.0.0.1\:5901'
	done

But `ptybuffer` is NOT meant to be shoot and forget, as it fills '/var/tmp/autostart/$USER/' with log output quickly.
(Compare SystemD, it fills `/var/log/journal/`, however you can easily change that behavior of `ptybuffer`, but quite not so easily for SystemD.)

